MariaDB Migration (#15492)
pingcap/docs: migrate-from-mariadb.md

---
title: Migrate Data from MariaDB to TiDB
summary: Learn how to migrate data from MariaDB to TiDB.
---

# Migrate Data from MariaDB to TiDB

> This document describes how to migrate data from a MariaDB server installation to a TiDB Cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes how to migrate data from a MariaDB server installation to a TiDB cluster.
```

## Prerequisites

- Install [Dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md) and [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md).

> - Set up [Data Migration (DM)](/dm/dm-overview.md)

Reviewer 2: We can mention that these prerequisites are optional per "migration strategy"?

Reviewer: OK, moved to L27

> - Install [Dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md) and [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md).
> - Set up [Data Migration (DM)](/dm/dm-overview.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Make sure you have the required privileges on the MariaDB server that are required for Dumpling to export data.

Reviewer 2: Also link to a reference for "required privileges" 🤔

Reviewer: Moved to L27

> - Make sure you have the required privileges on the MariaDB server that are required for Dumpling to export data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make sure you have the [required privileges](/dumpling-overview.md#required-privileges) on the MariaDB server for Dumpling to export data.
```

Choose the right migration strategy:

- The first strategy is to [Dump and restore](#dump-and-restore). This works for all versions of MariaDB. The drawback of this strategy is that it needs more downtime.
- The second strategy is to [Replicate data](#replicate-data) from MariaDB to TiDB with DM. DM does not support all versions of MariaDB. Supported versions are listed on the [DM Compatibility Catalog](/dm/dm-compatibility-catalog.md#compatibility-catalog-of-tidb-data-migration).

Besides these two strategies, there might be other strategies available specifically to your situation. For example:

- Use the functionality of your ORM to re-deploy and migrate your data.
- Modify your application to write and read from both MariaDB and TiDB while the migration is ongoing.

This document only covers the first two strategies.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prepare the following based on the strategy you choose:

- For the first strategy, 
    - Install [Dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md) and [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md).
    - Make sure you have the [required privileges](/dumpling-overview.md#required-privileges) on the MariaDB server for Dumpling to export data.
- For the second strategy, set up [Data Migration (DM)](/dm/dm-overview.md).

```

| performance_schema | utf8mb3_bin        |       38 |
| mysql              | utf8mb3_bin        |       61 |
| sys                | utf8mb3_bin        |       40 |
| information_schema | utf8mb3_general_ci |      375 |
| performance_schema | utf8mb3_general_ci |      244 |
| sys                | utf8mb3_general_ci |      386 |
| mysql              | utf8mb3_general_ci |       67 |
| mysql              | utf8mb4_bin        |        8 |
+--------------------+--------------------+----------+
14 rows in set (0.045 sec)
```

See also [Character Set and Collation](/character-set-and-collation.md).

## Dump and restore

This method assumes that you take your application offline, migrate the data, and then re-configure your application to use the migrated data.

It is strongly recommended to first do this on a test or development instance of your application before doing it in production. This is both to check for possible compatibility issues as to get insight into how much time the migration will take.

1. Stop your application. Take your application offline. This ensures there are no modifications made to the data in MariaDB during or after the migration.

> 2. Dump the data. For this the first step is to dump data in MariaDB with the `tiup dumpling` command.

Reviewer 2: seems we should also link to "tiup" page

> 2. Dump the data. For this the first step is to dump data in MariaDB with the `tiup dumpling` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Dump the data. For this the first step is to dump data in MariaDB with the [`tiup dumpling`](/dumpling-overview.md#use-dumpling-to-export-data) command.
```

    ```shell
    tiup dumpling --port 3306 --host 127.0.0.1 --user root --password secret -F 256MB  -o /data/backup
    ```

3. Restore the data. For this step we will use the `tiup tidb-lightning` command. See [Get Started with TiDB Lightning](/get-started-with-tidb-lightning.md) for how to configure TiDB Lightning and how to run it.

4. Migrate user accounts and permissions. See [Export users and grants](#export-users-and-grants) for how to migrate your users and permissions.

5. Reconfigure your application. You need to change the application configuration so that it can connect to the TiDB server.

> 6. Clean up. Once you have verified that the migration is successful you can make a final backup of the data in MariaDB and stop the server. This also means you can stop and remove the DM cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Clean up. Once you have verified that the migration is successful you can make a final backup of the data in MariaDB and stop the server. This also means you can remove the tiup/dumpling/lightning tools.
```

Reviewer 2: @hfxsd please help commit this change after your review

## Replicate data

This method assumes you would set up replication, stop your application and wait for the replication to catch up, and then re-configure your application to use TiDB.

It is strongly recommended to first test your application before doing this migration in production.

To use DM, you need to deploy a set of DM services either with a [TiUP cluster](/dm/deploy-a-dm-cluster-using-tiup.md) or with [TiDB Operator](/tidb-operator-overview.md). After that, use `dmctl` to configure the DM services.

### Step 1. Prepare

Make sure that binlogs are enabled on MariaDB and that the `binlog_format` is set to `ROW`. It is also recommended to set `binlog_annotate_row_events=OFF` and `log_bin_compress=OFF`.

You also need an account with the `SUPER` permission or with the `BINLOG MONITOR` and `REPLICATION MASTER ADMIN` permissions. This account also needs read permission for the schemas you are going to migrate.

If you are not using an account with the `SUPER` permission, then you might have to add the following to the DM configuration, because TiDB does not yet know how to check for MariaDB specific permissions.

```yaml
ignore-checking-items: ["replication_privilege"]

> ```

Reviewer 2: besides this MariaDB specific preparation, we can also mention DM's general precheck items.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Before using DM to migrate data from upstream to downstream, a precheck helps detect errors in the upstream database configurations and ensures that the migration goes smoothly. For more information, see [Migration Task Precheck](/dm/dm-precheck.md)

```

If you're not using an account with the `SUPER` permission then you might have to add the following to the DM configuration as TiDB doesn't yet know how to check for MariaDB specific permissions.

```
ignore-checking-items: ["replication_privilege"]
```

### R2. Replication

Note that it is not required to first copy the initial data as you would do with MariaDB to MariaDB replication, DM will do this for you.

Please follow the [Quick Start Guide for TiDB Data Migration](/dm/quick-start-with-dm.md) to replicate your data from MariaDB to TiDB.

### R3. User accounts and permissions

See [Users and grants](#users-and-grants) below for how to migrate your users and permissions.

### R4. Testing

Once your data is replicated you can run read-only queries on it to validate it. Please see the section below about [Testing your application](#testing-your-application) for more details on this.

### R5. Switchover

> First stop your application. Then monitor the replication delay, which should go to 0 seconds. Then you can change the configuration of your application so that it connects to TiDB and start it again.

Author: Yes that would indeed be good to add.

It is strongly recommended to first do this on a test or development instance of your application before doing it in production. This is both to check for possible compatibility issues as to get insight into how much time this would take.

### D1. Stop your application

Take your application offline. This ensures there are no modifications made to the data in MariaDB during or after the migration.

### D2. Dump the data

For this the first step is to dump data in MariaDB with the `tiup dumpling` command.

```
tiup dumpling --port 3306 --host 127.0.0.1 --user root --password secret -F 256MB  -o /data/backup
```

### D3. Restore the data

For this step we will use the `tiup tidb-lightning` command. Please see [Get Started with TiDB Lightning](/get-started-with-tidb-lightning.md) for how to configure TiDB Lightning and how to run it.

### D4. User accounts and permissions

See [Users and grants](#users-and-grants) below for how to migrate your users and permissions.

### D5. Reconfigure your application

Here you would change the application configuration so that it now connects to the TiDB server.

### D6. Cleanup

> Once you have verified that the migration is succesful you can make a final backup of the data in MariaDB and stop the server. This also means you can stop and remove the DM cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once you have verified that the migration is successful you can make a final backup of the data in MariaDB and stop the server. This also means you can stop and remove the DM cluster.
```

> ## Replicate data

Author: Done in https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/15492/commits/f18f4d41cb04fea72b1f82f99b50e3679309430d

```
ignore-checking-items: ["replication_privilege"]
```

### R2. Replication

Note that it is not required to first copy the initial data as you would do with MariaDB to MariaDB replication, DM will do this for you.

Please follow the [Quick Start Guide for TiDB Data Migration](/dm/quick-start-with-dm.md) to replicate your data from MariaDB to TiDB.

### R3. User accounts and permissions

See [Users and grants](#users-and-grants) below for how to migrate your users and permissions.

### R4. Testing

Once your data is replicated you can run read-only queries on it to validate it. Please see the section below about [Testing your application](#testing-your-application) for more details on this.

### R5. Switchover

First stop your application. Then monitor the replication delay, which should go to 0 seconds. Then you can change the configuration of your application so that it connects to TiDB and start it again.

To check for replication delay run [`query-status <taskname>`](/dm/dm-query-status.md#detailed-query-result) via `dmctl` and check for `"synced: true"` in the `subTaskStatus`.

### R6. Cleanup

> Once you have verified that the migration is succesful you can make a final backup of the data in MariaDB and stop the server. This also means you can stop and remove the DM cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once you have verified that the migration is successful you can make a final backup of the data in MariaDB and stop the server. This also means you can stop and remove the DM cluster.
```

---
title: Migrate Data from MariaDB to TiDB
summary: Learn how to migrate data from MariaDB to TiDB.
---

# Migrate Data from MariaDB to TiDB

This document describes how to migrate data from a MariaDB server installation to a TiDB cluster.

## Prerequisites

Choose the right migration strategy:

- The first strategy is to [Dump and restore](#dump-and-restore). This works for all versions of MariaDB. The drawback of this strategy is that it needs more downtime.
- The second strategy is to [Replicate data](#replicate-data) from MariaDB to TiDB with DM. DM does not support all versions of MariaDB. Supported versions are listed on the [DM Compatibility Catalog](/dm/dm-compatibility-catalog.md#compatibility-catalog-of-tidb-data-migration).

Besides these two strategies, there might be other strategies available specifically to your situation. For example:

> - Use the functionality of your ORM to re-deploy and migrate your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the functionality of your Object Relational Mapping (ORM) to re-deploy and migrate your data.
```

> - Modify your application to write and read from both MariaDB and TiDB while the migration is ongoing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Modify your application to write from both MariaDB and TiDB while the migration is ongoing.
```

| performance_schema | utf8mb3_bin        |       38 |
| mysql              | utf8mb3_bin        |       61 |
| sys                | utf8mb3_bin        |       40 |
| information_schema | utf8mb3_general_ci |      375 |
| performance_schema | utf8mb3_general_ci |      244 |
| sys                | utf8mb3_general_ci |      386 |
| mysql              | utf8mb3_general_ci |       67 |
| mysql              | utf8mb4_bin        |        8 |
+--------------------+--------------------+----------+
14 rows in set (0.045 sec)
```

See also [Character Set and Collation](/character-set-and-collation.md).

## Dump and restore

This method assumes that you take your application offline, migrate the data, and then re-configure your application to use the migrated data.

It is strongly recommended to first do this on a test or development instance of your application before doing it in production. This is both to check for possible compatibility issues as to get insight into how much time the migration will take.

1. Stop your application. Take your application offline. This ensures there are no modifications made to the data in MariaDB during or after the migration.

> 2. Dump the data. For this the first step is to dump data in MariaDB with the [`tiup dumpling`](/dumpling-overview.md#use-dumpling-to-export-data) command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Dump data in MariaDB with the [`tiup dumpling`](/dumpling-overview.md#use-dumpling-to-export-data) command.
```

    ```shell
    tiup dumpling --port 3306 --host 127.0.0.1 --user root --password secret -F 256MB  -o /data/backup
    ```

> 3. Restore the data. For this step we will use the `tiup tidb-lightning` command. See [Get Started with TiDB Lightning](/get-started-with-tidb-lightning.md) for how to configure TiDB Lightning and how to run it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Restore the data by using the `tiup tidb-lightning` command. For more information about how to configure TiDB Lightning and how to run it, see [Get Started with TiDB Lightning](/get-started-with-tidb-lightning.md).
```

> 4. Migrate user accounts and permissions. See [Export users and grants](#export-users-and-grants) for how to migrate your users and permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Migrate user accounts and permissions. For more information about how to migrate your users and permissions, see [Export users and grants](#export-users-and-grants).
```

5. Reconfigure your application. You need to change the application configuration so that it can connect to the TiDB server.

6. Clean up. Once you have verified that the migration is successful you can make a final backup of the data in MariaDB and stop the server. This also means you can remove tools such as TiUP, Dumpling, and TiDB Lightning.

## Replicate data

This method assumes you would set up replication, stop your application and wait for the replication to catch up, and then re-configure your application to use TiDB.

> It is strongly recommended to first test your application before doing this migration in production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is strongly recommended to first do this on a test or development instance of your application before doing it in production. This is both to check for possible compatibility issues as to get insight into how much time the migration will take.
```

To use DM, you need to deploy a set of DM services either with a [TiUP cluster](/dm/deploy-a-dm-cluster-using-tiup.md) or with [TiDB Operator](/tidb-operator-overview.md). After that, use `dmctl` to configure the DM services.

### Step 1. Prepare

Make sure that binlogs are enabled on MariaDB and that the `binlog_format` is set to `ROW`. It is also recommended to set `binlog_annotate_row_events=OFF` and `log_bin_compress=OFF`.

You also need an account with the `SUPER` permission or with the `BINLOG MONITOR` and `REPLICATION MASTER ADMIN` permissions. This account also needs read permission for the schemas you are going to migrate.

If you are not using an account with the `SUPER` permission, then you might have to add the following to the DM configuration, because TiDB does not yet know how to check for MariaDB specific permissions.

```yaml
ignore-checking-items: ["replication_privilege"]
```

Before you use DM to migrate data from upstream to downstream, a precheck helps detect errors in the upstream database configurations and ensures that the migration goes smoothly. For more information, see [Migration Task Precheck](/dm/dm-precheck.md)

### Step 2. Replicate data

> Note that it is not required to first copy the initial data as you would do with MariaDB to MariaDB replication, DM will do this for you.
> 
> Follow the [Quick Start Guide for TiDB Data Migration](/dm/quick-start-with-dm.md) to replicate your data from MariaDB to TiDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the [Quick Start Guide for TiDB Data Migration](/dm/quick-start-with-dm.md) to replicate your data from MariaDB to TiDB.

Note that it is not required to first copy the initial data as you would do with MariaDB to MariaDB replication, DM will do this for you.
```

---
title: Migrate Data from MariaDB to TiDB
summary: Learn how to migrate data from MariaDB to TiDB.
---

# Migrate Data from MariaDB to TiDB

This document describes how to migrate data from a MariaDB server installation to a TiDB cluster.

## Prerequisites

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```sql
SELECT
  plugin,
  COUNT(*)
FROM
  mysql.user
GROUP BY
  plugin;
```

```sql
+-----------------------+----------+
| plugin                | COUNT(*) |
+-----------------------+----------+
| mysql_native_password |       11 |
+-----------------------+----------+
1 row in set (0.002 sec)
```

### System-versioned tables

TiDB does not support [system-versioned tables](https://mariadb.com/kb/en/system-versioned-tables/). However, TiDB does support [`AS OF TIMESTAMP`](/as-of-timestamp.md) which might replace some of the use cases of system-versioned tables.

You can check for affected tables with the following statement:

```sql
SELECT
  TABLE_SCHEMA,
  TABLE_NAME
FROM
  information_schema.tables
WHERE
  TABLE_TYPE='SYSTEM VERSIONED';
```

```sql
+--------------+------------+
| TABLE_SCHEMA | TABLE_NAME |
+--------------+------------+
| test         | t          |
+--------------+------------+
1 row in set (0.005 sec)
```

To remove system versioning, execute the `ALTER TABLE` statement:

```sql
MariaDB [test]> ALTER TABLE t DROP SYSTEM VERSIONING;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.071 sec)
Records: 0  Duplicates: 0  Warnings: 0
```

### Sequences

> Both MariaDB and TiDB support [`CREATE SEQUENCE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-sequence.md). However, it is currently not supported by DM. It is recommended that you do not create, modify or remove sequences during the migration and test this specifically after migration.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Both MariaDB and TiDB support [`CREATE SEQUENCE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-sequence.md). However, it is currently not supported by DM. It is recommended that you do not create, modify, or remove sequences during the migration and test this specifically after migration.
```

To check if you are using sequences, execute the following statement:

```sql
SELECT
  TABLE_SCHEMA,
  TABLE_NAME
FROM
  information_schema.tables
WHERE
  TABLE_TYPE='SEQUENCE';
```

```sql
+--------------+------------+
| TABLE_SCHEMA | TABLE_NAME |
+--------------+------------+
| test         | s1         |
+--------------+------------+
1 row in set (0.016 sec)
```

### Storage engines

> MariaDB offers storage engines for local data such as `InnoDB`, `MyISAM` and `Aria`. While the data format is not directly supported by TiDB, migrating these works fine. However there are also engines that place data outside of the server such as the `CONNECT` storage engine and `Spider`. While you can migrate such tables to TiDB, TiDB does not provide the functionality to store data outside of the TiDB cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
MariaDB offers storage engines for local data such as `InnoDB`, `MyISAM` and `Aria`. While the data format is not directly supported by TiDB, migrating these works fine. However, some engines place data outside of the server, such as the `CONNECT` storage engine and `Spider`. While you can migrate such tables to TiDB, TiDB does not provide the functionality to store data outside of the TiDB cluster.
```

To check what storage engines you are using, execute the following statement:

```sql
SELECT
  ENGINE,
  COUNT(*)
FROM
  information_schema.tables
GROUP BY
  ENGINE;
```

```sql
+--------------------+----------+
| ENGINE             | COUNT(*) |
+--------------------+----------+
| NULL               |      101 |
| Aria               |       38 |
| CSV                |        2 |
| InnoDB             |        6 |
| MEMORY             |       67 |
| MyISAM             |        1 |
| PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA |       81 |
+--------------------+----------+
7 rows in set (0.009 sec)
```

### Syntax

> MariaDB supports the `RETURNING` keyword for `DELETE`, `INSERT` and `REPLACE` statements. TiDB does not support them. You might want to look into your application and query logging to see if it affects your migration.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
MariaDB supports the `RETURNING` keyword for `DELETE`, `INSERT`, and `REPLACE` statements. TiDB does not support them. You might want to look into your application and query logging to see if it affects your migration.
```

### Data types

> MariaDB supports some data types that TiDB does not support, such as `UUID`, `INET4` and `INET6`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
MariaDB supports some data types that TiDB does not support, such as `UUID`, `INET4`, and `INET6`.
```

| Collation          | Charset | Id  | Default | Compiled | Sortlen |
+--------------------+---------+-----+---------+----------+---------+
| ascii_bin          | ascii   |  65 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| binary             | binary  |  63 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| gbk_bin            | gbk     |  87 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| gbk_chinese_ci     | gbk     |  28 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| latin1_bin         | latin1  |  47 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_bin           | utf8    |  83 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_general_ci    | utf8    |  33 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_unicode_ci    | utf8    | 192 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci | utf8mb4 | 255 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_0900_bin   | utf8mb4 | 309 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_bin        | utf8mb4 |  46 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_general_ci | utf8mb4 |  45 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_unicode_ci | utf8mb4 | 224 |         | Yes      |       1 |
+--------------------+---------+-----+---------+----------+---------+
13 rows in set (0.0012 sec)
```

> To check what collations the columns of your current tables are using you can use this statement:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To check what collations the columns of your current tables are using, you can use this statement:
```

## Replicate data

> This method assumes you would setup replication, then stop yor application and wait for the replication to catch-up and then re-configure your application to use TiDB.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This method assumes you would setup replication, then stop your application and wait for the replication to catch-up and then re-configure your application to use TiDB.
```
